# Inspiration Generator
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://youtu.be/ONOX-kUKpD0>
#### Description:
My CS50 final project 'Inspiration Generator' was intended to be a prototype of a larger project which I intend to build in the future. This future project is to build a web-application which creates texts for church services in the Orthodox Church. I am a cantor in my local Orthodox Church, and frequently come across the problem that it is very difficult to find the text for the services. To find the particular text you need at each service requires the insertion of several different variable texts into the larger default church service. These variable texts change depending on the day of the week, the level of the service, the particular liturgical season, and more. As a result of all these different variable texts, it can be extremely difficult to compile the correct text for the service and it usually is a very inconvenient process. My idea for the future is to create a program that pulls the required variable texts from a database and plugs them into the default text. This program would give all the hard work over to a computer, creating a much easier experience for me as a reader.

With my CS50 final project 'Inspiration Generator', I sought to create a prototype version of this future application on a much smaller scale. The Inspiration Generator takes user input and inserts variable texts into a default text based on these inputs, which is essentially what the future text generator will have to do. The theme of the Inspiration Generator is to output an inspirational quote based on user input. I decided to keep the quotes extremely simple in order to keep the project at a manageable scale, and in order to avoid monotony I tried to make these simple quotes somewhat humorous in nature.

The Inspiration Generator operates very similar to the web-application in CS50's finance, where I drew inspiration in order to implement my project. My project uses Python, HTML, Flask, and CSS. The file 'app.py' holds the code which governs the application. In this file, the required libraries are imported such as Flask functions and datetime. The default HTML page is returned, displaying a form for the user to submit. The main 'index' function listens for the form to be submitted on the website. If it is submitted, the app returns different HTML templates based on the submission. The templates vary based on whether the form was submitted correctly, the day of the week, and user-input. To detect the day of the week, I used Python's datetime function. The templates also have different variable texts plugged into them based on user input. There are a total of five different variables which affect the outputted text: if the form was submitted correctly, whether or not it's the weekend, and three different fields of user-input.

After the form is submitted, the quote is displayed on the template that the user is redirected to. From here, the user has two buttons they can click, one in the nav-bar and one below the quote. Both buttons simply redirect him to 'index.html', the main page of the website which contains the form to generate a new quote.

The quote generation works by using Flask to take the value of the submitted form option and plugging it into the default text. I composed the default and variable texts in such a way that they make grammatical sense when you plug each option in. In early stages of development, I was beginning to use SQL to pull the variable texts from a database, but decided to scrap this approach when I realized that the quotes were not complicated enough to require a database, and I could just use Flask and Python. For the development of the church service generator, I do plan to use a database though, and through the beginning stages of this project where I was using SQL, I was able to learn how I could implement this.

Other important files in my project include 'layout.html'. This file is the main template which the other templates are plugged in to. It uses the same overall structure as CS50's finance website, and has a minimalist aesthetic. Another file is 'styles.css', which contains the code to style the HTML pages. I did not use a lot of styling given the small scale of this project, but made sure to have everything look adequate. Files like 'error.html', 'meaning.html', 'quote.html', and 'weekendquote.html' are all the different templates for displaying the quotes which vary depending on the variables in the form submission.

Thank you for checking out my project. I hope you gained some inspiration from the generated quotes!
